so you're the best man of the groom and
you need to give a speech at the wedding
and you're panicking because you have to
do that soon and you haven't thought
about how on earth you're going to do it
don't panic you've come to the right
spot what's going on my name is wade
patterson and i'm passionate about
impactful communication i'm passionate
about public speaking toastmasters all
of those things
if you like this content if this video
gives you any value at all please
subscribe to my channel i would really
appreciate it
back to the subject matter of this video
and that is giving a speech as a best
man there's a lot of pressure right
people are expecting a lot of things
from the best man speech and you may be
feeling that pressure i'm hoping some of
these tips are going to be helpful for
you let's start off with the length of
time that a best man speech should
probably be and the guidance i like to
give on this one is five to seven
minutes i think that that is sort of the
sweet spot where anything shorter than
five minutes seems a little bit short
anything longer than seven minutes you
may start losing people's attention
don't stress over these numbers if it
goes a little longer if it goes a little
shorter that's all good but if you're
half of that time or you're double that
time it may be time to recalibrate that
speech and bring it a little tighter
into that time suggestion next up is the
structure how should your speech be
structured there's no one right way to
organize a speech
the method i like to use is introduction
middle or body and then conclusion with
the introduction this is your
opportunity to be a little creative the
best speeches capture an audience's
attention right away it's a statement
something powerful and as the best man
i'll be honest people are probably
looking for you to inject a little bit
of humor best men's speeches are often
funny like they're enjoyable to listen
to
therefore if you're able to add a little
bit of humor early on it's going to be
very powerful and it's going to engage
the audience there's another less known
benefit of using humor as well and that
is your own confidence because one of
the most powerful things as a speaker is
when you can get the audience to laugh i
can't even
describe what happens it's almost like a
chemical
is released in your body and it relaxes
you you
gain the confidence to know hey i'm
going to be okay things are going to be
all right here the audience is laughing
they're enjoying themselves therefore
the earlier you can do that in the
speech you're going to relax the
audience you're going to relax yourself
humor should be part of the goal with
that said
where the mistake i have seen with some
best man speeches is that
it turns almost into a bit of a roast
and you know the person the best you
know the groom the best that is why you
are the best man therefore use your own
judgment read the room maybe the
audience is the type who that's what
they're hoping for they're hoping for
you to be a little bit edgy and all of
those sorts of things but consider
they're sometimes grandparents or
people who
do get offended easily in the room you
may want to
know where that line is perhaps you
could talk to the bride about it
that's sometimes a good strategy is to
kind of get her okay on some of the
subject matter without spoiling the
speech of course you don't want to say
this whole speech to her because that's
part of the fun for her as well hearing
that on the wedding night but maybe
there's something that you're like i
want to tell the story but it may be too
much on the edge hey if you got the
bride's approval you're probably fair
game so you have that powerful
introduction something that hopefully
injects a little bit of humor captures
the audience's attention next up is the
main part of the speech and this can be
simple this can be a story which is
often the best the best speeches often
are personal stories interactions
something that you know about the groom
from your friendship that maybe not
everyone is aware of and these can be
positive qualities as well but that
story is a really good opportunity to
get a few laughs perhaps
and really engage the audience but the
important part here is toward the end of
that story before you get to the
conclusion it's not all about the laughs
you do really want to take the time to
outline i'd say at least 50 50
being all of the great characteristics
of the groom it's probably your best
friend or maybe it's your brother
obviously somebody who you care a lot
about talk about all the amazing traits
that this person has and why they are
such a great friend or
brother or whatever the relationship is
really make it nice and it's kind of
nice to to filter that in toward the
middle to end of the speech because that
is what people will remember before you
get to the end of your speech you also
want to say some nice things about the
bride this is your opportunity and you
don't want to take the same tactic of
trying to be too too funny with this i
think genuine comments and compliments
and all of those sorts of things are
going to go over best now if you have a
subtle funny endearing story about the
bride absolutely add that in but keep in
mind that that time limit that you're
trying to keep within five to seven
minutes you don't want to go on and on
and on
that way but if you're able to do so
within the time that is a great way to
go about it but you definitely should be
saying at very minimum a few nice things
about the person who your best friend or
your brother is marrying lastly you have
the conclusion and i think any speech
the best speeches are ones that come
full circle
therefore with that introduction that
you had that's maybe something that's
got a little bit of humor and captures
the audience's attention if you can
reference that in the conclusion
it's a powerful element that makes it's
kind of like wrapping a bow on your
speech it just makes everything work and
makes everything fit
and
the audience or the attendees i guess i
should say of the wedding they're gonna
remember your speech they're gonna say
hey that was really well done
how did you do it put it all together
and that
i've seen speeches start here go all
over the map in terms of subject matter
all over the place but then they come
back somehow
to reference this first point and
regardless of the journey it's like wow
that came together very nicely well done
a last piece of advice i'd give is don't
write out your speech word for word the
worst speeches are the ones where you're
holding a piece of paper and you're
reading everything word for word you
don't need it you're telling stories
about the groom this is a person you
know very well if you need notes write
little subtle things that jog your
memory but you shouldn't need to write
everything down word for word it's going
to take away from things like body
language from your ability to use some
vocal variety and really make it a great
speech i hope this video was helpful for
you in taking on your best man speech
leave me a comment below if this is a
speech that you're about to take on or
if you've done it recently let me know
i'd love to hear how it goes you're
going to do great otherwise consider
subscribing to my channel and thanks so
much for watching this video